docs: add GCP BigQuery integration guide for experiment data exports (#257)
absmartly/docs: docs/Third-party-integrations/GCP-BigQuery-Integration/index.mdx

```

You don't need to create the table manually — the Cloud Function uses BigQuery's
**schema auto-detection** on the first load and appends to the table on
subsequent loads.

<Admonition type="tip">
If you prefer a fixed schema, create the table upfront with the columns matching
your export configuration and set <code>autodetect=False</code> in the Cloud
Function's <code>LoadJobConfig</code>.
</Admonition>

## Step 2 — Create the Cloud Function

Create a directory for your function:

```bash
mkdir absmartly-export-to-bigquery && cd absmartly-export-to-bigquery
```

### `main.py`

This function handles the webhook, downloads the export ZIP, extracts and sorts
the CSV files by name, and loads them into BigQuery in order.

<Admonition type="info">
Large exports are split into multiple CSV files (at 5 million rows each). The
files are named so that sorting alphabetically preserves the original row order.
The function sorts and loads them sequentially to maintain that order in
BigQuery.
</Admonition>

<CodeBlock language="python" title="main.py" showLineNumbers>
{CloudFunction}
</CodeBlock>

### `requirements.txt`

<CodeBlock language="text" title="requirements.txt">
{Requirements}

> </CodeBlock>

Author: Fixed — removed the `sorted_containers` import entirely (it was unused). No need to add it to requirements.txt.

URL. A Cloud Function receives it, downloads the ZIP file, extracts the CSV
files, and loads them into BigQuery — giving your data team direct SQL access
to experiment data.

## Architecture

```
ABsmartly                          Google Cloud
┌──────────┐   POST (webhook)   ┌──────────────────┐
│ Webhooker │ ────────────────► │  Cloud Function   │
└──────────┘                    │  (Python)         │
                                │                   │
                                │  1. Download ZIP  │
┌──────────┐   GET /v1/...      │  2. Extract CSVs  │
│ Exporter  │ ◄──────────────── │  3. Sort by name  │
│ (API)     │ ────────────────► │  4. Load to BQ    │
└──────────┘   ZIP file         │                   │
                                └───────┬──────────┘
                                        │
                                        ▼
                                ┌──────────────────┐
                                │    BigQuery       │
                                │    Dataset        │
                                └──────────────────┘
```

## Prerequisites

1. **ABsmartly account** with access to the Web Console and a valid **API Key**.

>    API Keys can be created under `Settings > API Keys` in the ABsmartly Web Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **ABsmartly account** with access to the Web Console and a valid **API Key**.
   API Keys can be created under `User Profile > API Keys` in the ABsmartly Web Console.
```

Author: Fixed — changed to `User Profile > API Keys` in ccb4485.

</Admonition>

## Step 2 — Create the Cloud Function

Create a directory for your function:

```bash
mkdir absmartly-export-to-bigquery && cd absmartly-export-to-bigquery
```

### `main.py`

This function handles the webhook, downloads the export ZIP, extracts and sorts
the CSV files by name, and loads them into BigQuery in order.

<Admonition type="info">
Large exports are split into multiple CSV files (at 5 million rows each). The
files are named so that sorting alphabetically preserves the original row order.
The function sorts and loads them sequentially to maintain that order in
BigQuery.
</Admonition>

<CodeBlock language="python" title="main.py" showLineNumbers>
{CloudFunction}
</CodeBlock>

### `requirements.txt`

<CodeBlock language="text" title="requirements.txt">
{Requirements}
</CodeBlock>

## Step 3 — Deploy the Cloud Function

Deploy with `gcloud`, setting the required environment variables:

```bash
gcloud functions deploy absmartly-export-to-bigquery \
  --gen2 \
  --region=us-central1 \
  --runtime=python312 \
  --entry-point=handle_webhook \
  --trigger-http \
  --allow-unauthenticated \
  --memory=512Mi \
  --timeout=540s \
  --set-env-vars="\

> ABSMARTLY_API_URL=https://your-subdomain.absmartly.io,\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ABSMARTLY_API_URL=https://your-subdomain.absmartly.com,\
```

Author: Fixed in ccb4485.

ABSMARTLY_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY,\
BIGQUERY_DATASET=absmartly,\
BIGQUERY_TABLE=experiment_exports"
```

After deployment, `gcloud` prints the function's **URL**. Copy it — you'll need
it in the next step.

<Admonition type="info">
The <code>--timeout=540s</code> (9 minutes) allows time for large exports to
download and load. Adjust based on your typical export sizes. The
<code>--memory=512Mi</code> should be sufficient for most exports; increase if
you see out-of-memory errors in Cloud Function logs.
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="tip">
For production use, consider removing <code>--allow-unauthenticated</code> and
instead validating a shared secret. You can add a custom header to the ABsmartly
webhook and check it in the function.

> </Admonition>

Author: Fixed — removed `--allow-unauthenticated` from the default deploy command. It's now secure by default (authenticated invocation), with a tip explaining how to opt in to public access if needed. Also switched API key to Secret Manager.

```bash
mkdir absmartly-export-to-bigquery && cd absmartly-export-to-bigquery
```

### `main.py`

This function handles the webhook, downloads the export ZIP, extracts and sorts
the CSV files by name, and loads them into BigQuery in order.

<Admonition type="info">
Large exports are split into multiple CSV files (at 5 million rows each). The
files are named so that sorting alphabetically preserves the original row order.
The function sorts and loads them sequentially to maintain that order in
BigQuery.
</Admonition>

<CodeBlock language="python" title="main.py" showLineNumbers>
{CloudFunction}
</CodeBlock>

### `requirements.txt`

<CodeBlock language="text" title="requirements.txt">
{Requirements}
</CodeBlock>

## Step 3 — Deploy the Cloud Function

Deploy with `gcloud`, setting the required environment variables:

```bash
gcloud functions deploy absmartly-export-to-bigquery \
  --gen2 \
  --region=us-central1 \
  --runtime=python312 \
  --entry-point=handle_webhook \
  --trigger-http \
  --allow-unauthenticated \
  --memory=512Mi \
  --timeout=540s \
  --set-env-vars="\
ABSMARTLY_API_URL=https://your-subdomain.absmartly.io,\
ABSMARTLY_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY,\

> BIGQUERY_DATASET=absmartly,\

Author: Fixed — switched to `--set-secrets="ABSMARTLY_API_KEY=absmartly-api-key:latest"` using Secret Manager. Added an admonition explaining how to create the secret.

  ROUND(COUNTIF(c.unit_uid IS NOT NULL) / COUNT(*), 4) AS conversion_rate
FROM first_exposures e
LEFT JOIN conversions c ON e.unit_uid = c.unit_uid
GROUP BY e.variant
ORDER BY e.variant;
```

### Per-experiment table mode

When using `TABLE_PER_EXPERIMENT=true`, replace the table name with the
experiment-specific table and remove the `experiment_id` filter:

```sql
-- Unique participants per variant
SELECT
  variant,
  COUNT(*) AS unique_participants
FROM (
  SELECT
    unit_uid,
    variant,
    ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY unit_uid ORDER BY event_at ASC) AS rn
  FROM `YOUR_PROJECT_ID.absmartly.experiment_42_exports`
  WHERE event_type = 'exposure'
)
WHERE rn = 1
GROUP BY variant
ORDER BY variant;
```

### Troubleshooting

| Symptom | Possible cause |
| --- | --- |
| Function returns 405 | Webhook is sending a GET instead of POST — check the webhook URL |
| `401 Unauthorized` on download | `ABSMARTLY_API_KEY` is incorrect or missing |
| `404 Not Found` on download | Export file may have expired — check `ABSMARTLY_API_URL` and the `download_url` |
| BigQuery permission error | Cloud Function's service account needs **BigQuery Data Editor** role on the dataset |

> | Timeout errors | Increase `--timeout` and `--memory` in the deploy command |

Author: Fixed in ccb4485.

```bash
gcloud config set project YOUR_PROJECT_ID

bq mk --dataset \
  --location=US \
  --description="ABsmartly experiment data exports" \
  YOUR_PROJECT_ID:absmartly
```

You don't need to create the table manually — the Cloud Function uses BigQuery's
**schema auto-detection** on the first load and appends to the table on
subsequent loads.

<Admonition type="tip">
If you prefer a fixed schema, create the table upfront with the columns matching
your export configuration and set <code>autodetect=False</code> in the Cloud
Function's <code>LoadJobConfig</code>.
</Admonition>

## Step 2 — Create the Cloud Function

Create a directory for your function:

```bash
mkdir absmartly-export-to-bigquery && cd absmartly-export-to-bigquery
```

### `main.py`

This function handles the webhook, downloads the export ZIP, extracts and sorts
the CSV files by name, and loads them into BigQuery in order.

<Admonition type="info">
Large exports are split into multiple CSV files (at 5 million rows each). The
files are named so that sorting alphabetically preserves the original row order.
The function sorts and loads them sequentially to maintain that order in
BigQuery.

> </Admonition>

Author: Good catch — clarified that sequential loading only ensures deterministic ingestion order, and added a note to use `ORDER BY` in queries. Fixed in d96da1f.
